it's easy
to blame the rich for everything that's
wrong in your culture it's easy to blame
the rich for everything that's wrong in
your economy it's easy to blame because
it seems like they are the people who
have a choice whereas the vast majority
of society in large part lives their
life scrambling around
from one ledge to the next clinging to
the
the cliff of downward mobility for dear
life scrambling to survive from hand to
mouth and it seems as if the rich
whether or not they are making good use
of their intellectual and political
potential they are the ones who have the
power to change the world not just to
change their own lives but to change
everyone else's lives as well it seems
so easy to blame the rich for anything
that's wrong
but let me ask you something do you
actually think our society would be
better off without them
however low however mean of you you have
of the millionaires of this world now
the united states of america is in a
uniquely powerful position in terms of
attracting
and retaining a population of
multi-millionaires
if you think the world would be a better
place if for example america kept
raising its tax rates until they reached
such a point that millionaires were
fleeing the country to live elsewhere
you might instead produce a situation
more like what russia
has today you will meet
ethnically russian millionaires
in athens greece you will meet russian
millionaires in cyprus you will meet
them in london england you will meet
them in cambodia there's a remarkable
pattern i'm not talking about i'm not
talking about communism talk about
russia as it exists today vladimir
putin's russia where it seems like
anybody who has enough money to get out
flees just as soon as they can do you
think russia is better off today
because the most successful people
and the wealthiest people all tend to
flee and the people who don't run away
the people who stay in russia who have
millions of dollars
a very large percentage of those people
stay
because their money their fortune their
social status is somehow tied up with
the political establishment within
russia and that may or may not be black
market that may or may not be mafia-like
organized crime but they are the people
who can't get out because they are too
closely bound to you know the power
structure that defines russian society
guys if you're a multi-millionaire you
know you can be an investor in the
russian oil and gas industry without
living in russia you can get yourself a
passport
on the island of malta you can get
yourself a passport for cyprus you can
get yourself a passport for canada
london england phnom penh cambodia and
you can you can continue to be a russian
multi-millionaire
deeply involved in the uh oil importing
and exporting business any part of the
russian company pardon me any part of
the russian uh economy uh you prefer
russia is an example of a country today
that has a great deal of difficulty
retaining
its multi-millionaires retaining its
investor and entrepreneur class and
instead the ruling class that they do
retain the people with money who stay in
the country are
culturally politically and ethically
somewhat terrifying
now situation is not yet that extreme in
china but i have lived in many different
parts of the world or i am surrounded by
the multi-millionaires who are fleeing
communist china i've mentioned this on
my channel before so i'll just say very
briefly we do have one book here dealing
with it
one of the problems broadly speaking
with communist china over the last 30
years let's say
um
was that almost everybody who became
wealthy
to some extent participated in
corruption
and that corruption
may have been
acceptable
in the government's eyes at that time
like
there were certain types of crimes where
the government may be actively colluding
with you the government may be
encouraging you the whole crime may
consist of government collusion but you
could have gone through a period of time
where people in the chinese government
were warmly appreciative towards your
way of doing business and your way of
doing business with them
and then you know 10 years go by and the
people in charge and the communist party
change obviously that can be at an elite
level it can be at a local level you
know etc etc
and there's a new crackdown on
corruption
and that crackdown it may be sincere it
may be sincerely trying to get rid of
corrupt business practices banking
practices corrupt collusion between
industry government or it may be
insincere in the sense that they are
just eliminating people who are attached
to the earlier regime
and in order to have their places taken
by people attached to the new regime so
for example xi jinping begins his period
in power he may want to sweep away
people no matter how um
earnestly communist
uh no matter how corrupt or
incorruptible he may want to sweep away
people who were attached to the regime
before him obviously this is just
contrasting one communist regime to
another but nevertheless they have their
own cliques they have their own uh they
have their own connections you know
etc
um
i have seen whole communities of wealthy
chinese flea in china in northern
thailand i have seen them in laos third
world country that has a land border
with with china i have seen them in
cambodia but the sheer scale of the
chinese expatriate communities in this
way the people who are fleeing china
with money
fleeing china with a huge percentage of
china's wealth frankly the communities
you see today in the suburbs of los
angeles california
the whole city of vancouver canada and
indeed large parts of toronto the city i
grew up in okay yeah
yeah
if you want to blame the rich for your
problems
it's understandable it's an impulse you
know we could at least as children we
could all relate to if you want to blame
the rich for your problems please stop
to consider what it would be like to
live in a society where the rich are
made uncomfortable and have every reason
to flee where generation after
generation people are becoming
millionaires because it happens
spontaneously
for all kinds of reasons people people
become millionaires but then as soon as
they have money
they leave your country behind you can
never get them back would that be good
for your country would that be zero now
you have to think that through all the
way to its utmost limit okay and by the
way china is not the most extreme
example okay
russia under vladimir putin is not the
most extreme example you can take a look
at france during the french revolution
okay you can take a look at haiti in the
same period haitian revolution french
revolution you can have societies where
everybody with money packs up and leaves
without exception leaving just us
beggars behind and you can ask yourself
how good or how bad that is for you
personally how good or how bad that is
for citizens there are drastic examples
where everybody with any money
whatsoever flees you know the rest of
society more or less collapses it goes
back to medieval uh quality of living
because believe it or not rich people
actually do provide they're they're an
important part of our economy they're an
important part of our society that we
have an unequal society but it's not the
case that rich people contribute nothing
and poor people contribute everything
rich people actually contribute a great
deal to our society
i know don't may sound ridiculous try to
be making a case for let's appreciate
the aristocrats let's appreciate what
the aristocrats do for us
[Music]
so you can reason that all the way
through to its extremes you can think
about having a society that the rich run
away from a society the rich are not
comfortable living in or staying in for
one reason or another okay and then you
can think about the opposite extreme
what about living in a country where
seemingly all the government cares about
all that the government ever does is
pander to the rich is make their lives
better where all of society just and you
know the political elite you have
whether it's called a democracy or not
is basically a society governed by the
rich and for the rich instead of by the
people for the people right
for a lot of you
that kind of society is not very
difficult to imagine and whether or not
you feel you're living in a society like
that right now you may have been on
vacation
visiting a society of that case where
government is
of the rich
by the rich for the rich or it seems
that everything the government does is
really just concerned with making life
better for a tiny elite that is at the
pinnacle of society economically
politically educationally so and so
forth and there's there's very little
concern for the suffering strife and
fate of the poor let's say the poor 40
percent
uh of society right yeah that's that's
also bad that's also bad but i think
there's not a lot of discourse about how
it is we're supposed to have a society
that in a productive way incorporates
the rich and poor into one democracy
into one republic rich people and poor
people can't contribute to democracy in
the same way and let's be fair even if
on a chalkboard hypothetically even if
they can contribute to society in the
same way they don't all right rich
people and poor people have something
different to contribute to study but it
is just as false and myopic and stupid
to pretend that the rich have nothing
good
to contribute to our society as it is to
pretend that the poor have nothing good
and again some of you may have lived in
a society like this some of you may have
only read about it in uh you know
fiction or you know historical novels
from the past but you don't have to look
too too far to find examples of people
expressing the opinion that the poor
don't know anything about politics they
don't care anything about politics they
really have nothing positive to
contribute well we are living through a
period of time where very understandably
you know
the main light motif coming out of the
left i would say everything left of
center you know it's it's a political
culture that's really been redefined and
cultivated by bernie sanders alexandria
ocasio-cortez and a new
generation of you know activists voters
participants every every kind of person
um people have really been conditioned
to get into this mindset of blaming the
rich vilifying the rich and and
justifying their fantasies of how
they're going to achieve a better
society simply through this slogan tax
the rich that they can massively
increase taxes so hey guys um people
from the audience are saying things uh
i'm happy to answer questions from the
audience i kind of am uh i kind of am
replying to questions that were already
asked in response to uh an earlier video
i uploaded maybe about a week ago
uh so i can just reply to that question
and just speak on this topic that's the
title of this video
if you guys want to participate in the
conversation
you gotta you know you gotta say
something relevant to the conversation
so it's fine someone asked does eizel
ever read the read the live chats or
something yeah so you haven't watched
many of my live streams i respond all
the time sometimes people say really
amusing really intelligent really
interesting things but if you design
completely irrelevant i'm unlikely to
digress to deal with it because there's
just no point so someone here in the
audience
uh comments they haven't seen my channel
uh since my commentary on joe vegan from
four years ago so yeah i hate to tell
you but we've probably had more than
four million views on this channel since
that time we're well past five million
views and creeping up towards six
million views in total at this point so
now i've been i've been
broadcasting almost daily or something
once every couple days i've been i've
been uploading and uh i don't know i've
learned a lot my audience has learned a
lot we've had a lot of fun we've shared
our sorrows and we've shared our joys
over the last four years what can i tell
you so yeah i'm happy to see you here
but yeah oh
someone else says just checking in
you're a legend isil okay great oh good
we have some right wingers in the in the
crowd too okay
you can decide for yourself uh by the
end of this video how uh how left-wing
or how right-wing i may be or to what
extent i'm an unholy uh conglomeration
of of of irreconcilable contrary bits
and pieces of of the left and right ends
of the political chair by the way
melissa is here off camera melissa if
you want to if you want to ask a
question i mean i think i think broadly
speaking you're familiar with the topic
i'm going to speak on here but you also
feel free to derail
um
oh well yeah yeah yeah
so someone's writing in saying that he's
a a house cleaner and a chef
in spain
and his his whole life revolves around
caring for the rich you know what i mean
catering to the rich literally and
figuratively and you know he feels this
tension very much that the pay is very
is very poor well look you know my my
heart goes out to you and you know he
says otherwise he has he has no job okay
but within the terms of this video i can
give you a very simple question
would you rather work for poor people
like it's so easy to think it's so easy
for us to convince ourselves to think
that being rich is a vice that being
rich in and of itself is a moral failing
well if you were doing this kind of job
being a housekeeper
a cleaner and a chef if you were doing
it for poor people would they pay you
more
would they treat you better would they
be more polite would they be more caring
you know what i mean no you know i'm not
i'm not i'm not insisting that your life
would be worse if you only had poor
clients but yeah yes no i completely
understand the situation um
you know many years ago so what 20 years
ago more when i was a yout much younger
man
i was teaching english as a second
language and i only wanted to help poor
people you know i had this very
castigating attitude and it's
understandable i could i could humanize
it a bit but it's like look i've i've
crossed the ocean i've flown away to
these exotic places thailand laos
cambodia you know and
why would i want to spend my time
helping the people who least need the
help
and the people who are already the most
westernized and the most highly educated
like i want to get out here i want to
have some kind of charitable and
educational role in relation to the poor
and the downtrodden that's what i was
there for now there were other reasons
for that too uh culturally what i wanted
to learn and what i want to expose to i
wanted to live amongst the poor and
getting my hands dirty and so on there
were different reasons
but obviously you know this is even
though well-intentioned this is
obviously incredibly naive in in many
ways
uh
you know who can afford to pay
someone to teach them english you know
they're two types of people either
you're going to work with the wealthy
or you're going to work with people of
some kind of institution supporting them
so
normally in some other country i might
mention the military like people who are
learning the language because they're
part of a military training program or
some kind of government training program
of this but where i was the other the
other real source of patronage for
education was the church
right so i was offered a job i refused
it i was offered a job to be an english
teacher for the catholic church
i
i needed the money too i was i was poor
i was poor and desperate and i
didn't know i was going to earn my next
wedding and i remember just saying the
guy look you know i'm i don't know what
you think of me
how can i possibly you know it's like do
you think i came here to participate in
like the cultural genocide against these
people and the destruction of their you
know language and history and culture
and religion like do you think i came
here to help the catholic church destroy
countries like laos and cambodia and the
only redeeming things about them you
know what i mean
so you know that's like what you know
what am i supposed to say um
yeah so look life involves these hard
choices and you know obviously we're not
gonna get into just uh we're not gonna
get into just providing this guy with
advice for what he can do in his
particular situation although i i
sympathize you know it's it's very easy
to feel oh well my life is bad because i
work for rich people as if that meant
your life would be better if you worked
for the poor so part of this guy's
job is being a chef
so i assume this is that role this is
quite popular in california where
wealthy people pay a chef to come into
their kitchen bringing all the materials
and then to cook a series of meals that
go into the fridge and that they eat
themselves like they don't eat not to
serve like a restaurant necessarily
maybe they set out one one meal on the
table but there's some you know they do
quite a bit of cooking for a couple of
hours on one day and then leave and then
kind of stocked up the fridge with a
bunch of healthy meals so in california
specifically that's that's become
popular so instead you know it's a
visiting chef not a live-in chef they
give this guy the keys to their house
they trust him enough to come in and do
this so you can imagine especially with
uh wealthy uh elderly people or or
something all kinds of people now pay
for this this kind of service well you
know i mean again it's
easy when you're living with that and
all the tensions and you know the
relationship between you and your
clients it'd be easy to think oh well
what's wrong with these people is that
they're rich they have bad attitudes and
they're exploiting me and and
and and so on and so forth well you know
do you want to provide food for the poor
and you you have a job no you know do
you think the poor are such angels you
know whether you do it on a humanitarian
basis like an actual charity providing
food for the poor or you try to do it on
a for-profit break-even basis you're
trying to compete with uh mcdonald's
providing food for the poor okay okay
you know you you think that's better
you know and then you get to you get to
have the same tensions you get to
experience you know in the same sense of
being exploited
uh by people who themselves may resent
that they feel exploited you know silica
i just say it's it's very easy to slip
into a mindset of uh polarizing the
issue and blaming one side of the other
and treating wealth as if it's an
intrinsic character trait as if it's a
foreign people you know i you know again
i kind of sympathize with all sides um
you know i just mentioned i think my
first job
one of my first jobs i did i did
actually have a couple jobs with us but
one of my first jobs in life was working
at a starbucks
in a wealthy neighborhood
and so this this particular starbucks
the only customers who came in who were
not wealthy were construction workers
which we got quite a lot of so guys
working construction then those guys
they were poor and they had dropped at a
high school they had very low levels of
literacy and education and you know so i
just say this you really felt this on
the job so i dealt with rich people i
dealt with extremely rich people
and then you dealt with these
construction workers
um
you know and of course you do that kind
of job
you get to learn all the ways in which
kind of rich people are horrible clients
to have whatever okay would you rather
would you rather work in a coffee shop
where it's all construction workers
where it's all poor people there's all
people with no no education you know i
just say it's very easy to very easy to
get uh to get them intelligent okay i
got some other interesting questions
here and i'll come back to them i see
your questions but i'll i want to get
back to the title of this video then
we'll turn to chit chatting with you
guys in the audience okay so look um
if you are rich or if you place yourself
hypothetically in the position of a rich
person you think through what your life
would be like if you were rich one of
the most fundamental things about rich
people is that they can live
anywhere in the world okay
if taxes in the united states are just
one percent higher than for a rich
person to relocate to barbados for a
rich person to relocate to the south of
france for the rich person to relocate
to thailand for a rich person to
relocate to switzerland
luxembourg
monaco
okay one percent
may not be decisive it may not matter if
they are just making that decision for
themselves okay what about when it's
five percent
what about when it's 15
what about when it's 20
all right you can only push it so far
because the rich have feet and they have
the means to buy themselves an airplane
ticket and to relocate anywhere else in
the world
now
this may seem obvious
within the hot house of left-of-center
political views
apparently it's not obvious to anyone at
all the blame the rich punish the rich
tanks the rich discourse
seems to be premised on the assumption
that you can impose punitively high
taxes on the rich forever
and that they won't fight back or they
won't just flee they won't just get up
and leave in response to unjust taxation
now
that phrase
unjust taxation
if you're an american it might bring
back memories of grade six for you
didn't we didn't we learned some chapter
of history some huge momentous political
event that was 100 percent motivated by
this this concept of of unjust taxation
oh right the american revolution
oh oh right
right an incredibly
trivial tax on tea
tea imported at boston the boston tea
party an incredibly trivial tax on t
they had it taxed on the rope used to
make uh the rigging for sailing ships
incredibly reasonable incredibly low
taxes imposed by the british empire
taxes that were much lower than the
taxes the american government imposed
upon itself were imposed upon its own
people after the revolution had been
completed yes that's a real fact yes
i've really done the research yes
recently yes it's fresh in my mind yes
it's discussed in my book no more
manifestos soon to be published on uh
kindle soon published on amazon's
website anyway
okay yeah so i've read about that stuff
recently you know
um
in response to really incredibly slight
incredibly reasonable taxation imposed
by the british empire and taxation that
the americans received tremendous
benefits in exchange for like they were
being taxed but they were receiving the
protection of the british navy the
british army and so on and so forth that
was enough to foment one of the most
decisive and influential political
events in the history of the world so if
you think unjust taxation doesn't matter
i wonder what page of introduction to
american history you're now on because
historically it has mattered
tremendously
if you are taxing people so sorry come
back to my original point if you're
taxing someone just one percent or two
percent more than b they'd be taxed
elsewhere that may not be decisive for
them making it on their decision as an
individual right
once it's five percent 10 20
all of a sudden relocating to the south
of france seems more and more
interesting and rich people have their
choice of living absolutely anywhere in
the world okay they can get a new
passport they can become they can become
a permanent resident they can move their
money they can move the west
but here's the other thing
most rich people are not just making a
decision for themselves only they're
making a decision for a large number of
other people now the easiest example is
if somebody owns a factory but even if
they just own an office they just have
an office of people taking care of their
wealth and taking care of their
investments if they are relocating
themselves and they're relocating their
employees then actually the way all of
those taxes they impact their extended
family they impact how much wealth their
children and grandchildren are going to
inherit the way it impacts all their
employees the way it impacts their
business not just looking at themselves
only you may be surprised to find that
just a 1 2 5 difference that can be
decisive and the american public should
be familiar with this because
practically every business that could
get out of the united states of america
and relocate to mexico already has done
so and the horizons now go much much
further than mexico american businessmen
american multi-millionaires can relocate
anywhere in the world at any time
most american millionaires are really
quite emotionally attached to living in
the united states of america frankly i
think it's because they like
participating in american democracy the
main thing they would leave by becoming
an expatriate partner
the main thing they would lose by
becoming an expatriate the main thing
they would lose in their lives is that
they would then have to lobby government
as a foreigner and many of them are i
think quite sentimentally attached to
lobbying government as an american
citizen and uh and participating that
way in this respect america has an
advantage over many other countries i
tell you where i live
canada
anyone with money anyone with ambition
anyone with success leaves immediately
and one of the main places they leave
for is precisely
to depart and relocate permanently to
the united states of america okay guys
gonna turn uh gonna turn to the comments
uh again and i'll return to the top of
the video
you want to see that gentlemen sure do
you remember that documentary that we
watched about the extremely wealthy
family in
uh florida i think yeah i think it was
had versailles
yes yes the title is just the queen of
versailles yes yeah
yeah i thought that was an interesting
look into an actual
and actually wealthy family seeing the
dynamics and also
getting back to the
person who was writing into you who
works for a wealthy
you know it was kind of sad like she was
separated from her own children and she
was raising these wealthy children yeah
in this
excessive
disgusting household yeah cut to the
chase but yeah
um so yeah i mean it's it's uh but would
she rather be working for a poor person
yes
yes and look so you know i have a lot of
complaints about my own childhood uh
melissa was mentioning a film that we
saw it's a documentary film you can
still see it quite easily
if you just google it it's called the
queen of versailles but it is not about
versailles france it is about a family
of multi-millionaires living in southern
florida
and but one of the interesting things
with the film is it shows their
relationship with their filipina nannies
so these are poor people from the
philippines employed to live and work in
their own house so there are many
interesting things with the film it's
not the only interesting thing but
that's that's one aspect of it um
and melissa has raised the question well
if you think this is bad if you think
being a servant for rich people is bad
would it be better to be a servant for
for poor people so look my own family
was in that position so when i was a kid
to be blunt my family was poor and they
got money kind of year by year as i was
growing up now i just this is just full
disclosure one of the main reasons my
family was poor is that my father had
nine children okay so like in terms of
the actual amount he was earning
probably like if you had only two kids
i presume we wouldn't have ever been
poor at all when you had nine children
i'm the youngest right so he was paying
for older kids to be going to college
when i was a child you know i mean he
was paying all this child support and
university tuition and these things for
those of the kids so the the poverty is
partly kind of contrived but in case i
can remember where my parents
and they employed a filipina nanny you
know and philippine and annie came to
live in our horrible windowless basement
you know sorry i could talk about the
house i lived in but you know we were
not rich people we did not have a
mansion uh it wasn't even a standalone
house it was one of those houses where
multiple families you know have multiple
doors in the building
you know what i'm i'm wrong sorry i was
remembering it as if it was attached to
the house next door but actually
actually i think they were freezing
there were just two houses that were
close to each other sorry
this is distant childhood memory now
that i think about it no anyway um
not sure i'm not sure if it was attached
uh funny what you remember what you
don't uh
in any case um
you know sure we were in the position
absurdly of being a family that wasn't
wealthy and we they really didn't have
the money for it but my parents didn't
want to raise me that's the reality but
they were absentee parents they had no
positive interest in knowing engagement
with raising their kids and in my
father's case the fact that he had seven
other kids before me makes that less
surprising when you're talking about kid
number eight and number nine my mother
does not have this excuse
um because that was only her second
child and so on but no i've i've seen
the the reality of that and yeah i just
i think that's a classical example of
what's called a false dichotomy where
you you see one thing as bad and then
kind of assume the opposite would be
good if you think the problem here is
being employed by wealthy people take a
minute to think about what it's like
having the same scenario but you're
you're employed by poor people or just
not wealthy people or what have you yeah
um okay sure i'm happy to talk about it
any which way but yeah it's just further
expanding on this this question from the
audience uh turn vol from the audience
turnbull is a long time viewer and uh i
do not know why it has a lock icon next
to his comment i wonder if that's
because
i don't know i just wonder if that's
that other people can't see his comment
or something i've never seen that before
a little block icon next to that comment
in the live stream
anyway uh he asks quote why do you think
the introvert equals shyness video
became so heavily downvoted he suggests
i think your meaning of the word
diverged too much from the common
consensus so turn off i think that's a
very simple question answer it is
something like um
astrological signs in our culture people
make up these identities the same way
they think of themselves as an aries or
a virgo or a
some other astrological like cancer or a
capricorn
i'm gonna sneeze
and then this identity they've adopted
becomes an excuse for their their bad
behaviors their sins of omission and
sins of commission
you know people cheat on their
boyfriends and attribute it to the fact
that they're a capricorn aries or
something or that their boyfriend is a
capricorn aries um in the same way you
know this is a identity of convenience
for people and people are very very
uncomfortable to have it challenged uh
morally and even just pragmatically you
know
uh what does it really mean that you
live with this excuse that you live with
this uh invented identity you know
so another comment on that uh
fchtvh says quote i thought he was spot
on with the introvert video some people
don't like hearing reality well my hope
for that video is that over the years to
come gradually it'll it'll build up uh
it'll build up thousands of views you
know that every so often people are
gonna search for that or will share the
link with a friend and say look look bro
if you have a friend who's been making
the excuse that they're an introvert
look bro i think you should really hear
this
you know i think
you think you have this uh you think you
have this uh you know this condition
that justifies all your uh all your
worst character draws or even just
justifies your laziness not to mention
your character flaws and so on your lack
of ambition well you should think about
it from a uh from from another
perspective
so by the way the the guy who wrote in a
man or woman i don't actually know but
anyway the person who wrote in confirms
melissa that this is relevant to his or
her situation they are actually raising
two kids that are not theirs he's paid
paid to raise children also
wow gee you're great off off topic
questions quote how do you know the
difference between a good translation of
xenophon and aristotle from a bad
translation without doing greek
great question
slightly off topic for this video
anyway so it's a it's a female viewers
writing in a better better situation
okay um
where were we
uh look
one of the things i dislike most about
this tax tax the rich
uh punish the rich discourse is
um
it's being proposed as if it hasn't
already been done
and as if the united states hasn't
already come up to its maximum limit of
what's possible this way so let's just
put this in a kind of comparative
perspective you guys may or may not have
heard about the rise and fall of this
so-called
uh new
oh jesus christ now i'm going to forgive
him new monetary theory mmt
that's it mmt uh
so-called modern monetary theory
i'll just put that if you guys want to
google it i do have videos already about
this
and it's [ __ ]
and i've made youtube videos
about it in the past but in case you
guys know what i'm talking about so
the appeal of modern monetary theory is
simply to argue
that the government united states of
america could spend far more money could
go far deeper into debt and then could
accomplish wonderful things like let's
just say building universities just to
give an example build a whole bunch of
new uh educational institutions
now
one of the telltale signs that this is
[ __ ] is that they never calibrate
this with real world examples i think we
have someone in the audience from brazil
welcome so
nobody ever says shout out to my
brazilian viewers
uh
oh well you know america could go so
deep into debt and print so much more
money
that they can then have their currency
collapse and devastate the economy for
like
20 years the way brazil
now that's true in terms of both
economic theory and yes america could do
that it would be a very very bad idea
for you know the federal sector to
overspend and bring on the kind of
crisis that that brazil endured now
decades ago and they had to dig
themselves out of and they had to issue
a whole new currency and all these
terrible things happened and it created
massive levels of criminal and black
market activity through the whole
economy because the
listed economy collapsed blah blah blah
it held back brazil's economic
development for for something like 20
years it's a huge disaster oh right so
we could then calibrate how much debt
and deficit the american government is
coping with and then we could compare it
to brazil and then we could kind of
calibrate when are we coming up to the
limit we're spending so much money the
government's spending so much money that
it can't spend anymore without disaster
and so you know you never hear
proponents of the government spending
more money who say calibrate america
compared to japan it's a great
comparison a japan is a tremendously
productive economy i mean the
strength of japanese exports and
manufacturing and even their investment
sector you know there are a lot of ways
in which japan has a
quality of university education and so
on and so forth
incredible impressive advanced economy
but guess what
japan's single biggest political problem
now and for at least 20 years has been
government debt that the government
spent too much money and they're mired
in an endless cycle of debt and deficit
that they can't dig their way out of and
it massively limits what they can do
economically and politically they really
have terrible terrible problems so you
never hear an advocate of government
spending more money whether under the
mmt heading or just under the bernie
sanders aoc saying oh well we can spend
twice as much money and then be in a
situation even worse than japan within
10 years where you know then then we
have like 20 years 30 years 50 years of
being stuck in this kind of perpetual
you know crisis now
how about greece does anyone else
remember the greek debt crisis how about
spain like you know this is this is not
ancient history most of us have some
memory you know of of these kinds of
crises
you will never see these claims
calibrated and expressed in relative
terms looking at what other countries
now are doing in terms of government
spending debt and deficit nor in terms
of historical examples where it reached
its limit or went too far and started
having really negative consequences now
this this whole discourse about blame
the rich punish the rich tax the rich
it's the same pattern right it's the
same pattern of self-serving reasoning
where people don't want to be honest
about it like oh okay you know
hypothetically there may be some country
somewhere in the world let's say monaco
where monaco really could be taxing rich
people more than they are i think
another example would be luxembourg
luxembourg generally holds the record
for being the wealthiest society in the
world partly because they have the least
poverty
another example might be singapore you
could try to put together a case where
you say look
in some of these countries
rich people are just not being taxed
enough like there's a lot of money just
going to waste because the taxes are too
damn low
on rich people there is no effort made
whatsoever to try to argue that this is
currently the problem in the united
states of america the taxes are just too
late there's just a massive amount of
potential uh in tax revenue that's going
to waste because the rich you know
income tax wealth tax nurse that it's
just dramatically lower than other you
know modern western democracies and then
again you know even if you're going to
make that claim you're going to make
that argument so look
because fair enough you can see look
there's a little bit of wiggle room you
know we could raise taxes a little bit
and be okay
why aren't you honest about just how
little that is
before you got into the situation where
you are taxing rich people enough to get
them to relocate elsewhere
again this is not the only type of
blowback you're gonna get it's not the
only type of negative side effect you're
going to get from raising taxes on the
rich but where either individual
multi-millionaires start fleeing your
country or they start relocating their
businesses they start relocating their
their investment concerns now again
it's
very easy to blame the rich for
everything that's wrong with your
country right so melissa is from the
greater detroit area detroit michigan
you can stand around
and look at michigan
it's true of all mission okay let's just
say detroit you can stand around and
look at detroit and say wow
this town is a disaster this town is a
ruin this is an economic failure
and this is a political failure
you can say you know whose fault it is
rich people
it's the fault of the multi-millionaires
now when you say that what really is
your assumption your assumption is that
you live in a country that's closer to
aristocracy than democracy that it's
rich people that control the government
that has rich people who make the
influential decisions that government is
of the rich by the rich for the rich
okay well you know interesting theory
and like i would understand anyone would
kind of relate to that response just
because in the united states of america
so many political decisions are made by
lawyers the government is to such a
large extent comprised of people who
went to law school and became lawyers
almost all lawyers either are born rich
or become rich before they start
becoming powerful people government it's
very easy to see the government as a
conspiracy of the rich against the poor
okay and it's very easy to see the
incompetence of government or the bad
decisions made by government as being
the fault of the rich being engaged in a
kind of war against the poor
and you know what
detroit is a really great example
because if you start doing the research
if you start reading the history to
destroy if you just look at a list of
who was the mayor of detroit when these
decisions were made there's actually a
really strong argument that the problems
with detroit are because of the poor all
right it was because of populist
political leaders predominantly
african-american
political leaders who were not born rich
who were not the stereotypical you know
white multi-millionaire elite leader of
of government you had a series of of
mayors including uh kwame kilpatrick you
know most notoriously you know the the
so-called hip-hop mayor of detroit who's
the guy
yes sir what was your name coleman
coleman that's right that's why it's
hard for me to remember sorry so the the
other really important mayor for many
many years was coleman young so coleman
young was a black and in his youth black
socialist he was a in his youth he was
far left as he got older he became more
of a mainstream leftist center
politician like you can't really look at
what's wrong with detroit without
looking at what's wrong with coleman
young and kwame kilpatrick and all the
people who supported them and you know
what
detroit huh you know actually a lot of
power has been in the hands of poor
people and demagogues you know
democratic political leaders who were
put into power because of support and
you know what
the poor people [ __ ] up the poor
people [ __ ] up detroit and you know
what you know rich people have a lot of
drug problems i've i've known rich
people a significant percentage of rich
people are drug addicts but you know
when you when you look around detroit
you look at who is it that's dealing
these drugs who is it that's getting
addicted to these drugs and and
committing crimes and making the city so
you know you know what it's it's not the
rich people at all i'm sorry i'm
starting to feel like what's wrong with
detroit has a lot to do with poor people
i'm using just these couple of examples
you know i'm only half joking but it's
half very serious politically you know
it's half joking upstairs but you know
it's just as stupid to blame the poor as
to blame the rich what is society like
what is a politic you know it's how the
rich and the poor live together it's how
they work together it's how they
participate to form one democracy one
republic or if you have a monarchy how
the rich and the poor live together work
together to form one monarchy even yeah
right no so that's
hashtag spoilers right
so you know whatever the decade was when
you were in detroit whether you were in
detroit in the 1950s 1960s 1970s 1990s
if you really thought that what's wrong
with detroit you're like you know what
this town is going to crap it's getting
worse and worse and people were already
saying that in 1950s interesting that
discourse was already there in the 1950s
1970s 80s you know what
this town is being driven into the
ground everything's getting worse and
worse you know what the problem is it's
those pesky rich people the problem is
the millionaires they're running this
town of the ground well you got your
wish you got your dream because the
millionaires left
all the rich people left in the end
virtually every wealthy person ran away
from detroit some of them just went to
new york city or chicago or los angeles
some of them probably moved to other
countries but guess what you got to
experience the presumed utopia of what
happens when all the rich people abandon
a city they decide they don't want their
kids to go to school there so on and so
forth and then of course the economy and
just general sense of hope and
hopelessness in detroit utterly
collapsed everything god got far worse
i mean you feel me but yeah you you
anticipated when i was uh for sure no no
it only adds it only adds every second
but yeah that's right um
anyway so guys just just to restate the
point i was making about mmt uh modern
monetary theory
you know
it really is important that people make
these claims in an absolute sense so
this is a bit of a 19th century
philosophical uh sense of the term
absolute the point is that uh that it's
not relative
to things in the real world you know all
kinds of things are like that you know
like a lot of people grow up being told
that they're beautiful and that they're
talented and they think of these things
absolutely you know i really caution
parents against this and i don't ever
talk this way to my own daughter you
know i don't tell my own daughter that
she is some uniquely talented uniquely
beautiful person what i tell my daughter
again and again is not that you're
special and you're different from other
children i tell her you're the same as
other children you know yes you know
like like if she sings i say you know
you you sing well
just like other children your own age if
you want to be really good at singing
you have to work hard and practice for
years just like all the other children
and when you meet other children who can
sing better than you that's because they
for several years of practicing we have
that kind of dynamic where you're not
talking about uniqueness and specials my
point is it's very easy for people to
think of these kinds of adjectives as an
absolute value as if some people are
beautiful and some people are not some
people are talented and some people are
not some people are special and some
people are not people tend to think of
this in a self-serving way sometimes in
a self-hating way but it's like oh okay
yeah well you know maybe you grew up in
saskatchewan and people always told you
you were beautiful and you were talented
or maybe they also told you you were
funny you know okay and then you move to
los angeles and you start going to
auditions and guess what how beautiful
you are is relative it's relative to
competition to other things you compete
with how talented you are as well okay
my point is in a in a much more subtle
way that we're unaware of we can think
about wealth and poverty advantages and
disadvantages government spending you
know the limits of government different
kinds of government policies without
calibrating them you know and i i admit
it's very hard to visualize amounts of
money when they're in the billions and
the trillions you know now one of the
stupidest things bernie sanders has done
is that he has encouraged americans to
think that the solution to their
education problem is just to have the
government enable people going into much
more debt
pardon me
so you have a country where the system
of education is bad
and the discourse now which is partly
bernie sanders himself and it's partly
his successors the new generation of
politicians who had their expectations
and frame of reference modified and
normalized by bernie sanders so it's
partly his fault it's partly all the
people who've come in after him to fill
the the power vacuum
you have a system of education that's
bad
and the response is not to say we'll
make it better and the response is not
to say we'll make it cheaper
the response from the democrat party in
the united states of america in 2021 say
we will help you
go into more debt
to pay for that you know we'll reduce or
eliminate interest payments on the debt
we'll let you go down now this is this
is a remarkably
strong recurring pattern in american
politics okay so so you have a health
care system that's bad
everyone can admit this okay it's bad
especially if you're poor in the united
states america if you're in the richest
10 20 even 30 percent of americans
probably your health care is pretty good
okay you have your healthcare system
that doesn't work very well for 60 of
the population at least oh okay okay so
it's bad okay you don't want to make it
better you don't want to make it cheaper
you want to enable americans to go into
more debt
and also to have more insurance
okay
improving the insurance system is not
improving the health care system like
are you [ __ ] stupid like what you
can't see the difference between health
insurance and health you know what you
can't say there was being health
insurance and the actual hospital or the
actual retirement home like what the
actual you know education system that
produces doctors and nurses like no like
that's just mind-blowing to me but these
these things they
you know the the people become so
accustomed to them they cease to
question them if they ever did right and
in this same way
these things are not calibrated so again
one of the one of the very few ways that
the left wing talks about improving
health care i criticized bernie sanders
this already in a separate video is
paying doctors a lower salary okay so
united states of america in order to
become a medical doctor it is quite
likely you spent 100 000 per year on
university costs so university tuition
plus cost of living it's quite likely
you you
you may even have half a million dollars
in debt to become a dollar half a
million dollars in total cost you could
be 500 000
now there are some exceptions okay you
met some honest poor hard-working doctor
who managed to go all through community
colleges took the cheapest possible
route to the greatest that okay you know
but you know whether they were paying
fifty thousand dollars a year or hundred
thousand dollars a year huge investment
huge amount of debt huge amount of risk
they become medical doctors then you
elect bernie sanders or alexandria
cortez says hey we're going to pay all
of you medical doctors half as much
they can go to barbados
they can go to the south of france they
can go to russia they can go anywhere
okay there are a lot of places around
the world that would be happy to have
american educated doctors they can go to
dubai okay
they can get up and leave and they will
and this gets talked about in the left
with no sense of calibration there's no
sense of how much less do you think you
can pay medical doctors that they're
being you know how much more do you
think government can subsidize that how
much more can government spend how much
more can government tax the rich right
because as soon as we get into
calibrating the claim as soon as we
start explaining it in relative terms
instead of absolute terms it's revealed
what [ __ ] it is and it won't solve
any of our problems right so
again
if you just say
tax the rich that's an absolute claim
right if you say
i think we can raise taxes on the rich
by two percent
you know i think we can raise taxes on
the rich
so that they are comparable to what's
currently being paid in the south of
france and you can figure out exactly
how much of a difference that is like
it's
probably in some states it's going to be
a little bit higher and some might be a
little bit lower
looking look at all the details you you
could you could just openly say we want
to frankify the tax system we want to
catch up with france in terms of levels
of taxation you know okay but then
people are going to be able to actually
crunch the numbers they're going to be
able to see how small and reasonable
how little difference this claim is
going to make whereas when you make
absolute claims
bernie sanders okay so currently it's
alexandria cosa cortez who has this the
slogan tax the ranch okay bernie sanders
defund the military
right he was going to reduce the
military budget by hundreds of billions
of dollars per year allegedly right that
was his that was wrong okay again you do
you want to actually work with the deals
you want to state this as an absolute
all of america in 2020 quote unquote
defund the police
it's an absolute claim
right you don't say oh we want our
police system to be more like what they
already have in switzerland or denmark
or something or oh we think we should be
more like singapore or japan no
no we think funding the police the model
for funding the police should be more
like japan no
no
these are made as absolute dogmatic
ethical claims and they lead people to
have a fundamentally surreal view of
economics so guys i'm going to answer
your questions going to read your
questions just one second
but just to restate something from an
earlier video i had someone writing into
me to ask
why given that i sympathize with the
left wing and many of their kind of
values and goals given that for example
i like gay people i support gay rights
or any number of miscellaneous things
given that i'm concerned about the
quality of education the poor have i'm
kind of a pro poor person etc etc
given that i have various things in
common with the left wing why would i
make a video
saying that the left wing is lying about
economics that the left wing is lying
about poverty in america that the left
wing is lying about wage growth that the
left-wing uh economic and political
agenda is based on lies
and my answer to that question was the
question that came in from the audience
was i'm saying they're lying about
economics because they're lying about
economics and i have proven that i've
made videos where we put up the charts
and we talk it through step by step all
right even if i sympathize with some
kind of social or cultural value you've
got like i'm an atheist it'd be very
hard for me to be a member of the
republican party which is dominated by
conservative christians all right i
could move to utah and it's dominated by
mormons it's you know
yeah culturally ethically i'm going to
have more in common with people in the
far left just because i'm an atheist for
no other reason i'm an atheist and i
like gay people i like gay rights you
know whatever things are coming
but even if i sympathize with some of
the goals you're pursuing like i think
we should have a better education system
i think we should have a better health
care system right i am not willing
to
conflate
fact and fiction i am not willing to
conflate myth with math
you know i'm not willing to live a lie
that's part of why i reject religion
right i'm not willing to let politics if
you like slip into the domain of
religion where we're all demanding that
one another believe in
things we know are not true for the
quote-unquote greater good
of our political movement i think that's
a tremendously dangerous tendency which
is very much alive and well now in this
unique transitional period
when we're moving from the bernie
sanders paradigm to whatever it is that
comes next whatever it is that replaces
it nobody knows that okay so babe you
can jump i'm going to read the comments
if you want to jump in
go go but explaining economics and
understanding economics is a lot easier
to just say these
very broad
uh catchphrases
exactly the right people are getting
poorer the better you're getting
right this is a catchy slogan
right has become popular but it's not
true
right so yeah i i'm with you like i'm in
the same
frame as you but
the masses
don't want to understand economics okay
okay so
totally good point uh raised by melissa
but you know um
[Music]
you know whether you're talking about
the rich or the poor you know do the
masses want to be involved in politics
at all
yeah
yeah yeah i know i know
all the politics yeah
i know
i know yeah so you know i i just say i
think that's the most the most
fundamental evil
people want to believe in their own
moral superiority over others you know
but there's i mean rich people are
people they're just people too rich
people are not inherently more
interested in politics and poor people
you hang around some rich people and
you'll you'll find out you know what i
mean but uh yeah
okay so by the way this comes back to
some fundamentals uh
yes so interesting going shout out to dj
jens dj jen has been watching the
channel for years and has been promoting
the channel here so thanks sir thanks
for sticking with me uh jens
um the name is probably known as jens
isn't it i'm pronouncing it jen's but
it'll be jens
uh anyway dj against um
he says you know people like bernie
sanders telling these lies about how the
poor are getting poor they are basically
disregarding the victories of the left
in the past which has always felt kind
of strange to me close quote yeah yeah
that is also that is also a strange one
of it but i mean jens you don't live in
the united states of america that's even
more true with the race-baiting that the
left does they want to talk about the
status of black people in america as if
it still was as bad as it was in the
1950s or 1940s where you know the
fundamental victories in improving the
status of african-americans in our
society where those are kind of
disregarded in the same way so yeah
there's a sort of strange
radicalizing tendency as you see to
disregard the victories of the left to
try to make it you know there's more to
fight for more more to win and more i'll
lose uh natasha says quote taking all
the money of the richest americans won't
put a drop in the bucket of national
debt so natasha that's where you're
wrong
so i could have said this before i was
talking about mmt and so on uh the
reality is that the government just
needs to have enough money coming in to
service the debt and keep the annual
deficit manageable as over the long term
inflation erodes the the debt away the
national debt away so that
that kind of equilibrium point or that
kind of uh sustainability point be a
good way to put that is that is that is
attainable and it's
you know the amount of money the
government is spending versus the amount
of tax come in that's not an impossible
or unattainable goal and i mean very
briefly you know bill clinton achieved
it bill clinton was not a genius you
know bill bill clinton did incredibly
briefly uh balance the budget
unfortunately he also set up what are
called entitlements that made it
completely inevitable that that that
economic balance wouldn't last but no
it's i just say it is it is attainable
um for the united states of america and
america has a tremendously powerful
economy canada does not you know i'm not
optimistic about canada that way at all
um but the united states of america is
still in a very very powerful position
economically they can uh dig their way
out of you know the the situation
they're in and by the way i remember the
last time i really crunched the numbers
uh was when donald trump was making his
tax reforms was lowering taxes and you
know a lot of people on the left said
like oh this is the end of america this
will destroy the country and i remember
writing the numbers and even though
donald trump's tax reforms they were bad
um you could see it still wasn't that
bad it wasn't this wasn't gonna end uh
the history of the union or something
you know
um
oh so ron sims mentions that uh his own
father was a former general motors
worker in the detroit area so his family
also is part of this remarkable
transformation and devastation of the
the detroit area
great question
unrelated uh so eugene casales perhaps
you pronounce the name eugene
uh eugene asks quote do you think it
would be better for geopolitics long
term if we had a global democracy i.e a
bigger united nations will we vote in
representatives in a sort of worldwide
confederation so eugene that's the great
question
and my honest answer is no and i'll tell
you why
i don't think this connects the topic of
this video but if it does we'll come up
with a way to connect it um maybe you
know
look you know
anyone who's seriously interested in the
politics of california and even the
economics of california will very soon
come to the conclusion that part of
california's problem is that it is too
big
too many people
too much land is just it's not the right
size
demographically or geographically to be
governed well
now you could make the opposite argument
for some of the really tiny states in
the united states america look at
delaware and say delaware is too small
it's possible but within canada we have
a very very small principality called
prince edward island very small province
within the union you can make the
argument look this doesn't really work
in terms of the democracy can be too
small
but for the most part what we're dealing
with in these situations is democracy
that is too big
so i am both
pragmatically and morally opposed to for
example the current european union now
if you look at the map of europe
it's very easy to maybe draw a circle
around four countries here or there i
mean depending on where on the map you
are it's okay this group of countries
they could cluster together and have
some kind of european union-like
relationship that could become one
country and that would work
but uh to have one you know
form a very indirect democracy for the
whole of the european union uh to me
this is a kind of flagrant disaster or
flagrant failure and really a
misunderstanding of what democracy is
and how it works now i have to add to
this so so i'm a skeptic in this sense
in the old days people don't say this
anymore um there used to be a political
movement called the smallest beautiful
movement i don't even know that's really
pre-internet but small is beautiful it's
an example of a political movement
that's completely self-explanatory
now i i am not i'm not a member of the
smallest beautiful movement um
my position is a much more skeptical
statement that something can be too
small and it can be uh too big i do
think for example you can have a
democracy that has 100 million people
that's that's big you know i think it's
possible it's not easy but you know the
difference between having a country with
5 million people 10 million people 30
million people 100 million people this
really matters i would not say the ideal
size for a country is 100 million people
i'm not i'm just saying i think it's
possible
um okay you know how optimistic are you
eugene about the future of india what do
you think about the quality of
government or democracy in india
it's more than one billion people with
one
system of democracy okay i've you know
look at what india is today and now
think about the future of the european
union you know think about
quote-unquote democracy on this scale
and this you know india is 100 the
british parliamentary system a very
indirect democracy this is not
greco-roman democracy this is not
athenian democracy it never has been now
of course
india is one example another one is
communist china one billion people more
than one billion people in both cases
and their idea of democracy is even more
indirect shall we say it is you know
china's claims to being a democracy at
all are are frankly laughable you know
so no and now what you are proposing
eugene
is to combine
china and india and saudi arabia
in one
even larger democracy this is a this is
a look
it's a bad idea partly because the
critique of already advanced which isn't
really small is beautiful it's really
medium sized is beautiful then we can
talk a lot about what what size medium
is but the other one of course is
language
you know it's so fundamental and nobody
wants to talk about this the only people
who want to talk about nationalism or
always racists or something well i'm not
racist i'm someone who's lived in a lot
of different countries a lot of
different cultures and if you think it
doesn't matter to be interrogated by a
police officer who speaks exactly the
same language and exactly the same
dialogue as you a police officer who can
look in your eyes and correctly pick up
on your mood and intonation and innuendo
you know when you have those
interactions with the police have you
done that with the language barrier
you've done that with a police officer
who doesn't really speak the same
language didn't really grow up in the
same culture as you and like the police
officer interprets you as being
dishonest or something where you you've
got a and melissa's even seen me
fighting with uh university
administrators this way and these people
speak the same language as me but
they're incredibly stupid people you
know you've seen me dealing with the
border guards well to some extent
sometimes that you saw it canadian
borders okay you know if you you know so
these are these are low-level examples
of the conflict between powerful and
powerless people uh you know
hierarchical
um authoritarian conflicts okay
now you're talking about having this
kind of
language mismatch going up and up and up
uh the chain i feel that can never work
and it's based on a very fundamental
misunderstanding of of democracy and
i'll be honest the language issue
matters to me so much you know i think
that's one of the great disadvantages
switzerland has it's why switzerland
doesn't work as one country it really
works as a cluster of several small
countries it's a whole bunch of
different small tiny democracies bound
up into one so someone's got a lot of
things right but i think it's very very
hard even when you're just talking about
italian-speaking people within
switzerland it's not easy now italian
and german are quite close as languages
compared to the other language gaps
so no um
i think i think that's based on quite a
fundamental misunderstanding of of what
democracy is and and how it works uh if
someone is is optimistic about that and
you know now by the way so eugene just
to argue against my own position which i
like to do
by contrast what if you had said to me
that everyone in the world can use
literally the same dollar bill the same
currency okay
well that's not democracy and that's not
the police and that's not the mayor and
that's not the university administrator
that's totally different by congress
it'd be incredibly simple to have the
whole world use the same physical
currency the same actual piece of paper
you know
that's politically that's that's that's
very simple now of course people can
then get into talking about the
advantages disadvantages of that but you
know if you had made an economic
proposal of that kind that's totally
different by the way something else have
targeted with this channel what if
everyone in the world had the same
minimum wage
well a minimum wage isn't something you
interact with like the police officer or
the mayor and so on so yeah this this
kind of thing all right
so
natasha says uh
go on jump in i would just say one thing
that you and i have talked about
together is that some people in the
united states feel disconnected from the
capital of the country yes absolutely
i mean but they are so just in case you
can hear melissa saying some people in
america feel disconnected from the
capital committee they feel disconnected
from washington dc but is it yeah and
they are they really are gone
yes and the people who live in new
mexico yes feel that they have no
connection to politicians who live in
washington dc for example so this is an
issue with a country just you know as
large as the united states
okay so let's let's take it back to
america's favorite uh example
okay if you were a black person
living in georgia in 1955
do you think you would have even felt
that the government of georgia
represents you works for you represents
your interest like my point is the
alienation within one state like the
state of georgia even the city of
atlanta was divided between white
neighborhoods and black neighborhoods
and everyone knew white people
controlled the government white people
were representing the government not
black was that's a distance that's not
geographic we could say well my
constituency is not representing the
government is not participating
government not just no i'm not just
saying they weren't participating as
equals i really mean they it was
effectively not their government was
effectively a foreign government they
were under the occupation of a foreign
government that didn't work for them you
know now
some people may still feel that way
today i mean i think it's much much less
extreme but sure if you're in alaska if
you're in hawaii you know it's much more
than just geography but that distance
um so i'll just say again to be selfish
if you want to see more you can't be
german but you know um
you know i have tried repeatedly to talk
to my government about the problems of
education at the university and what the
government says in effect is they don't
represent students now university
students are not the most poor and
downtrodden and powerless people in the
world you know we're all people who are
wealthy enough to pay tuition to go to
university one way or another right and
we're not the least educated we're not
the least organized but university
students have no constituency no
representation in government so
government can very easily represent any
number of special interests the
government may only care about the
professors not the students they may
only care about the medical doctors not
the patients they may only care about
the pharmaceutical companies not what's
in the best interests of poor and
powerless people who you know take these
medications so the the type of the
technical term and economic regulatory
capture is one way to put it but the
type of distance
that
exists between the government and the
people whose interest it pretends to
represent it's not always geographic but
sure the mirror geography and the mere
size this is a huge issue yeah sure
right which is if you're talking about
making this an actual democracy yes so
right even in a country like mexico
which borders the united states many
different states border
right there are a number of states that
border on the country of mexico but so
few people in america
know anything about the politics of
mexico they just don't care so it's a
lot to ask to expect that
in this global democracy that
if an american doesn't even care about
mexican politics if they really don't
even care about canadian politics yes
why would they care about
okay
malaysia or something totally totally
good examples uh and it's true america
is an internally divided country of
these problems but india is if you
follow indian politics and china has to
be like it gets worse you know and i
mean to some extent even japan because
japan is so spread out north to south
and people in tokyo don't know or care
about what's happening you know in the
southern islands and vice versa there's
a real mutual estrangement they don't
speak the same language they don't they
have linguistic differences within japan
and so on there are some of these some
of these conflicts exist
um
you know i just want to point out
athens
had to be internally divided to have the
marks that's one city that's a democracy
in the scale of one city but in order
for democracy to work in athens they had
to divide it into deems they had to
divide it into deems and tribes to have
smaller and smaller units than the
democracy that could meet and have
dinner together these were these are big
dinner parties but they had dinner
together and they had uh kind of
religious rituals together you could
call them really they're like civic
rituals they're civic religious rituals
and that was really how you participated
in democracy that's also how you
participate in the military did your
military service to this much smaller
unit so that's that's one city
why did they have such a vibrant
democracy and they had no radio and they
had no television so how and by the way
they didn't really have paper um this is
a slight exaggeration of simplification
but you know they mostly wrote using wax
tablets
in athens so i just get in the actual
scarcity of paper i'm not saying paper
didn't exist absolutely but they you
know as a technology they didn't have a
lot of paper to throw around either
these things were scarce and expensive i
believe they relied along writing on
vellum which is leather
uh yeah
no that's that's egypt yeah
um sorry melissa mentioned clay tablets
yeah you gotta go it's not it's it's not
dry enough
yeah no no no that's uh you've been a
grease it rains yeah i don't know if you
there are other cultures there in the
mediterranean where was mostly clay
tablets yeah it's got to be hot and dry
enough for it to dry fast and stay stage
right um sorry i mentioned i know about
this because i've studied a variety of
ancient cultures you know in sri lanka
the writing was done on literal leaves
leave green leaves from a trees
different cultures at different
technologies this way but i just say
greece um even like it's not like they
had a newspaper they didn't have paper
in that sense and that level you know to
have a disposable newspaper never you
know
parchment was very expensive and scraped
down and used repeatedly and all these
things they were just saying parchment
vellum these things were expensive how
did people even know what was happening
they went to these dinner parties they
went to the dean they went to these
civic rituals and so on and they
participated in debates and discussions
which were partly just learning what was
going on and then going to the panics
and debating which
so i'm just pointing even on that scale
it gets uh it gets divided internally in
order to work as a real participatory
democracy so yeah that's a word you
didn't use in your example but i mean
participation so i'm going to give one
example that's easy for everyone to
relate to and i think right away it
becomes very tangible okay who suffers
most because of our current liberal drug
policies the poor there are people
living in poor neighborhoods whose lives
are made hell every single day because
we've basically legalized heroin
legalized you know all these hard drugs
fentanyl uh various opiates
methamphetamine and so on okay well rich
people who live in a gated community
behind huge stone walls their lives
aren't really impacted by it very much
you know what i mean it doesn't affect
them but people who actually have to
walk out of their apartment building
door the door of their apartment has
drug dealers as drug addicts there's
people sleeping you know slumped over
you know like
poor people this really impacts their
lives every day and anyway we are not
poor but you know i can say
we're pedestrians we don't own a car
i've never owned a car i've never driven
a car in my life we are really impacted
by this every day in this way well you
know who is being represented in the
government who is being heard who is you
know
the distance between rich and poor and
who is really participating in
government in this way too you know this
this could be tremendously
it can be fatal to democracy you know do
you actually have enough poor people and
enough poor people from every
neighborhood now i know may sound
ridiculous
but you know it's very easy
i'm sorry so the capital california is
uh sacramento i would say santiago
anyway so sacramento
well you know how much do people in
sacramento
care about what's wrong in venice beach
california it's very easy to dismiss it
well that's just one neighborhood
that
well to us it's everything to the people
so you know
we'll know if you've had a much smaller
state i mean probably california could
be divided into three states or five
states if you had a much smaller state
that really regarded venice b which is a
tremendously important part of that that
state or that's that city you're just
that area oh you know this is a problem
we have to solve this should be our top
our top priority so yeah the so okay
there's been a good digression it's a
it's it's a it's a nice question it also
shows it relates back to the question of
rich and poor and how they work together
or don't uh work together in
uh in any given system of government so
natasha says quote i think you give
these people too much credit isil
they're ignorant and often insane so
natasha i have made videos talking about
this but you know
i really feel this is part of the
difference between season season one
isil mazard and season two as i was
saying you know this channel of allah
this is officially season two that we're
now in but you know no uh um
you know one of the changes i've had to
undergo in my own life is really deeply
accepting um how stupid how
malevolent and how crazy people are the
vast majority of people so it is
it's hard to accept but you know i think
that's one of the changes you you see in
me as a person and maybe it's implicit
in this uh this conversation with them
today but you know
um
yeah no i i don't uh i do not think
human beings are angels nor they uh
products of evolution that could easily
be confused with angels
um
[Music]
we got a comment but i don't know what
was responsible saying quote melissa is
spot
on yeah natasha says the bigger the
government the more distant from the
individual
well okay let me just ask have you ever
heard someone even once in your life
question the ratio of voters
to elected officials in the house
i mean it should be the most crucial
factor in every democratic political
system in the world everyone should say
hey you know the number of people we
have in the house of parliament or the
senate or whatever your system is you
know it's either stayed the same
while the population has doubled and
doubled again or it has actually
decreased in many american states it's
actually declined they have fewer people
in their in their senates and their
their uh
houses of congress you know but you know
for for the united states federally it
stayed static for a tremendously long
time during which the population doubled
and quadrupled and so on the population
continued to increase and increase so
why is it have you ever once heard
people debating this that if we're
supposed to have representation and
participation in government shouldn't we
have a a stated ratio where like for
every one
of everyone for every 10 000 voters
there's one person representing them
what is it going to be it's going to be
10 000 is it going to be 50 000 is it
going to be 500 000 at what point does
this idea of representation and
participation and government and
accountability at what point has just
become a a hollow ritual of fiction
because in reality millions of people
are voting for one man
and you know they they only had a
there's a choice between two men etc etc
you know um at what point do we do we
regard you know democracy just as a uh
as a clown suit loosely fitting over
what is underneath a kind of aristocracy
yeah
so ron sims says uh by the way ron
ronald simmons is african-american he
says quote i can say that the status of
african-americans his own people has
improved greatly even economically still
bad but not as bad as before and now we
have more opportunity but people are
still traveling past okay so ron so
my own neighborhood in toronto which
melissa has visited
it it was like predominantly black in
one direction over here and
predominantly portuguese over here but i
did grow up around a lot of uh black
people
um
but i would say this
whether you were talking about black or
white people whether
urban or rural
um you know we talk about a small town
or you're talking about the the big city
where i grew up you know whether it's my
neighborhood or not you know what
changed is when i was a boy there were
alcoholics on the street there were men
who stank like rum
and sometimes they vomited on themselves
and sometimes they'd urinated on
themselves
you know and today what we have both you
know again black people and white people
urban rural instead today what we have
on a massive scale is methamphetamine
addiction cocaine addiction opiate
addiction you know heroin and it's it's
close analogs and
so you know um
you know
obviously in some ways the status of
african-americans uh has improved but
you know the the demoralizing effect of
drug addiction and the drug culture
uh i just think it's impossible to
exaggerate it and it's again it's not
i've said it again again it's not just
african-americans i think if you hang
out with rednecks in the american south
i think if you hang out with guys who
are into monster truck where are you
saying like seriously like you know
white rednecks um who live in those
communities
it's just as scary or scarier you know
what i mean um
you know it's may not be reflected as
directly in
hip-hop music you know what i mean like
the the the like the white trailer park
experience the white monster truck
experience or whatever the redneck
american experience but i think in the
same way so i mean you know i'm sorry if
that sounds like political monomania on
my part but okay let's just say one more
you know in terms of the status of the
the poor and the downtrodden whether
they're whether black or white
you know
it used to be
that um you know mental hospitals
were were noisy places where people were
in chains and people were screaming
you know
people were ranting and raving and now
they're quiet
because everyone's on prescription
medication you know the shift in now
we've medicalized uh problems now so
again i've known all kinds of black
people in my life um
you know they are on prescription drugs
the same way white people are you know i
mean especially about urban black people
they're they're basically getting
handed out antidepressants and
everything else
uh
psychiatric medication whether they're
institutionalized or not they're being
handed these drugs at at least the same
rate white people are i did read one
study i'm not going to get into it that
was talking about the extent to which
black people are getting more
uh medicated
the hypothesis being that it's because
the actual psychiatrists have less
sympathy for black people when they're
their their clients like like the the
psychiatrists are more likely to just
include okay you're crazy you should be
put on drugs and get them on these drugs
but with their
interesting hypothesis i just say i i do
not know if you really look at the
numbers is that is that true
um
but you know
in these ways you know if you're talking
about the the status of of african
americans um
i i think it's impossible to exaggerate
in these in these particular ways how
much worse things have gotten how much
hope more hopeless things go and people
don't have a simple political solution
to point to for that there's nothing
they can reach out for for for a better
future now okay with no rose-colored
glasses let's compare this to the mix of
hope and hopelessness that existed
amongst african-americans in the year
in the year 1968 black people were worse
off in so many ways but of course there
was tremendous political optimism and
even educational optimism and you know
sense of awkward upward mobility in in
every way and people were using drugs
and they said the rate of drug addiction
and alcoholism was also incredibly high
but they they were they were different
drugs and indeed i think if you look at
the music that was in pop culture in
1968 there were songs about
marijuana and lsd and
and of course alcohol and and what have
you um but uh you know obviously i grew
up i mean
so i grew up with
rap music
period and
up to a certain stage in my life a lot
of the rap music was very vaguely and
obliquely
uh alluding to drug dealing
and i remember the first song that was
really so blunt and direct about it that
was on the radio
50 cent the rapper 50 cent came out with
the chorus quote
i love to pump crack
and uh the rhyme for which is that he
loves to squeeze gats by the way you
know and i
just
wow okay now we're at the point where
the they're they're referring to crack
as crack it's directly about hustling
you know on the street corners and so on
you know what this is this is no longer
something being obliquely alluded to
um this is the chorus in a song on the
radio
so you know now as i say i mean you know
um i've seen studies of particular
places in the american midwest where
drug drug addiction among white people
is at epidemic levels and so on here
where i'm living i think all of the drug
addicts okay
anyway the drug addicts here are not
black they're not african-canadian they
are predominantly white people
um so you know
anyway i'm sorry but this is my really
sincere response uh to this this short
comment from ron sims and i'm also being
sincere when i say when you look ahead
to the next 10 years or the next 20
years i think this is the single biggest
issue you know i.e inclusive of
um
prescribed psychiatric medication you
know so that's it's terrifying and there
is none of the optimism or hope that
you know perhaps in 1968 there was too
much optimus hope you know that we could
all have a better society but i mean
definitely i mean african-americans were
unbelievably optimistic in 1968 here we
are in 2021
obama came and went didn't change a
goddamn thing for anyone i'm sorry but
obama you know his his election promises
were incredibly vague but i mean nothing
got better for black people or white
people or anyone under
under obama and there's there's natural
there's no hope there's no hope at all
and um you know
so yeah i i in that sense i think it's a
tremendously bleak situation looking
forward and you know look again i i feel
this myself whether we're talking about
black people white people or or hispanic
people what are their hopes
supposed to be pinned on
like what's the hook you're supposed to
hang this up on
learning latin
studying latin and greek in the
universities like higher education it's
not just that it's too expensive it's
it's too worthless
there is no fine ideal represented by
the universities or higher education
there's nothing positive about upward
mobility that way you know i really do
understand you know the the emphasis on
realness
um that comes out of african-american
culture and i i don't think white
america is so different people want to
be real people want to be tough you want
to represent something authentic
and there is no uh ideal of being a more
educated person a more
refined person a more intellectual an
intellectually sophisticated person you
know that their ideals revolve around
fantasies of their own uh power
social status consumer self-indulgence
uh so on and so forth and again
i mean
redneck culture
and you know white american culture and
whatever yankee
uh white culture instead it's
either you embrace the fact that they're
all the same or each one is kind of five
percent different from the others or two
percent
they're very fundamentally similar this
way
um
yeah so no i i in this in this sentence
i see this is a tremendously bleak and
hopeless period of time and let me just
say to you i'm a little bit influenced
in that i used to be a member of the
buddhist religion and i met black people
converting to buddhism i meant black
americans i didn't i didn't talk to
africans
the people who were actually from africa
and africa but you know in terms of uh
african americans i met them and i also
read articles they'd written and stuff
and you can imagine a lot of them are
really openly saying that they were
trying to escape from the hopelessness
of all this they wanted to have a more
meaningful life and and so on and so
forth you know and um
you know they ended up signing up for
for buddhism that way now again i'm not
involved
let's just say buddhism is not the only
religion
and anyway that's a tiny tiny tiny
minority of people who will who will say
that or feel that way or respond that
way but yeah there were a lot of people
who are trying to escape from this
culture and they don't they don't know
where to escape to
and there's there's uh you know for
those of us who aren't who aren't
satisfied with the same kind of vulgar
fantasies that dominated 50 cents uh
imagination you know
for those of us who don't just want a
more expensive car
you know there's got to be more to life
and there's got to be more to politics
there's got to be more to economics too
um
it's it's very hard for anyone to find
it or find the word find the way forward
just catching up with your comments guys
yeah
so ron sims again comments that he's
just thinking about cleveland's
elections and how low the the turnout
was
well the problem is what happens in
between elections too
what's the role of uh the polity
in uh government when you're not having
elections
uh
electioneering and governing are two
very different things
yeah so will mcgeehan is actually
mentioning something we looked up
ourselves uh recently william again says
look up kensington in philadelphia so
yes believe it or not it's not worth
saying why
but someone suggested to me that i
should consider living in philadelphia
permanently that i should move there and
um was looking at philadelphia on
youtube and we've got a whole bunch of
different videos showing how terrible
the drug addiction epidemic is yes and
you know again i am not glorifying the
year 1968 but that was not the situation
in 1968 there was i mean the 1960s they
very much prefigured and produced our
current culture of drug addiction it was
a time when the rate of of drug use was
exploded but i'm just saying we are now
living with the consequences we're now
several stages uh further down that road
the problem is
to be blunt exponentially worse now than
it was in 1968 although i'm sure
philosophically you could say that the
same debate existed uh already at that
time
hmm
okay guys so i'm going to wrap it up
there let's let's come back to the title
of this channel and then call it a day
um
look you know um
it's easy to
blame the rich for your problems and
it's easy to imagine you would have a
better society if only you could
get rid of the rich and it is just as
easy and just as stupid for wealthy
people to blame all their problems on
the poor and think that we could have a
better society if we just got rid of the
poor
and
um the reality is
you will find this in a little known
author named machiavelli wrote a book
called discourses on livy you know the
reality is that when we just use the
term society what are we talking about
we are precisely talking about how the
rich work with the poor and yes also how
the rich work against the poor and how
the how the poor struggle against the
rich but it is the synergy between these
two social classes that we call society
or is the synergy between the six or
eight or twelve social classes however
you want to number them
i had a friend in high school and he
told me an anecdote that shows how
how liberal high schools were when i was
grant canada he told me an anecdote how
he was in the classroom though many of
you will have heard this opinion from
your own parents or grandparents or odds
and or uncles you have heard this from
some adult in your child
his his teacher in high school he was
quite an old cynical guy in his last
year of high school
at this time his teacher stood up in
front of the class and said that she
felt the government should force all of
the poor people who are receiving
welfare
to get vasectomies and tubal ligations
to be uh sterilized to be incapable of
having children so that poor people who
receive welfare stop having babies
because her vision of society was that
this is what's destroying society was uh
was was was uh poor people
uh
breeding
uh well well well using up the taxpayers
dollars so again some of you may have
heard this from your your parents or
grandparents or whatever you may have
heard it from from various sources
anyway and um
uh my friend this shows what you could
get away with in high school this way he
um satirized this position by standing
up in class and very politely agreeing
with the teacher but then going further
to suggest that this policy could be
applied to a number of ethnic minorities
which he named
in the most offensive terms
so that they also without any violence
uh without anything that would be called
genocide would disappear from our
society
anyway when he told me this and and then
he sat down this isn't like i can't say
it's a majority in black high school i
don't know if we had thirty percent or
forty percent we had a big black
uh population that high school fell it
was a very ethnically diverse high
school specifically uh africa black
canadians we had a lot of black
what did peop teacher say like what
happens next like it's a good anecdote
but then what happens
and he said he he sat down in silence
and he said she just said gulp
i'm guessing the other students were
just indifferent they just sat there
silently no nobody laughed and also
nobody
uh nobody was offended okay my point is
here
yes actually we do have a kind of
tremendous
uh culture of the rich
blaming the poor you know and now for
the moment at least we have this
political movement however benighted
however ill-fated of trying to motivate
and mobilize radical left-wing politics
the united states through the poor uh
blaming the rich now
okay
in the united states of america in the
year 2021
who is more racist
the rich or the poor
in the united states of america and year
who is more religious
the richer the poor
in the united states of america and your
2021 who is employed by the police
what kind of person becomes
a police officer the rich or the poor
we just went through this whole phase of
demanding
police reform is it
highly educated
cosmopolitan
wealthy
are those the people
who sign up
to spend their lives as police officers
are those the people you're
you're protesting against and we can
even get into the demographics of who
elected donald trump was it the rich or
was it the poor who are your real
political enemies here you know what i'm
saying if you're left of center of your
left wing really who are your enemies
who are you who are you struggling
against you know in in reality in the
united states of america right now
the wealthy the rich are the most highly
educated the most liberal and libertine
they are the most concerned about and
will induce line to change police
violence they are the ones who are most
capable of and most interested in
militating for reform whether that is
reform of the hospitals reform of the
universities or reform of the police
stations in fact the people who are
oppressing you the people you struggle
against not just in elections but like
at the police station dealing with
police violence dealing with police
brutality in fact to a tremendous extent
the problems you have in the united
states america today are the poor in
fact the reason why detroit as a city as
such a failure
cannot be easily blamed on the rich it
has to to a remarkable extent be blamed
on the poor and to demagogues people who
were elected by
drumming up support
uh from the poor people who were not uh
cynically employed by the ruling class
to serve the interests of the rich but
on the contrary people like coleman
young and people like kwame kilpatrick
you know what i'm saying so
you know uh
and you know kind of last things first
first things last
fundamentally the distinction between
rich and poor
is an analytical framework that can be
foisted onto
any problem but it is not always going
to be a useful analysis for that problem
okay well
i can use the same examples or i can use
all new examples okay militarism
okay
who is it who supports the american
military
is it the rich or the poor like again
whether you do this through polling data
or you've just actually lived in america
who's more pro-military who's like we
have this myth especially on the
american oh the problem is the
military-industrial context but probably
the military-industrial complex you know
like there's this there's this small
conspiracy of millionaires who profit
from the military and they're the ones
who support the expression of it really
have you met any republicans have you
ever been to a trailer park like have
you met poor people working class people
even people who work in factories
they're incredibly pro-military they're
incredibly militaristic something like
militarism
you think you can voice the rich versus
poor class now
same examples what's wrong with the
education system what's wrong with the
health care system what's wrong with
policing you can try to foist a rich
versus poor class analysis onto it and
you know some problems once in a while
you do you do have a real political
issue where it's important and necessary
to disaggregate the issue into rich and
poor how it affects the rich and poor
what the rich and the poor lobbying for
so on and so forth
but very often all too often instead we
are cynically misrepresenting the nature
of these problems and their solutions so
that we can pretend
that the problem was created by the
ranch so that we can blame the rich and
so that we can mobilize as insincere
demagogues we can whip up support from
the poor to to
support our political party our faction
however sincerely or and sincerely in
trying to you know promise you that the
solution is not to actually improve the
hospital and it's not to actually make
the hospital cheaper the problem is to
blame the rich punish the rich tax the
rich vote for us support us we'll
support you
and that uh the problem can in no way be
put onto the shoulders of the poor